Page | 23
 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“I? I see myself holding a pair of thick, woolen socks. ”
 After several minutes’ thought, Harry tore the
 obituary out of the Prophet, folded it carefully, and
 tucked it inside the first volume of Practical Defensive
 Magic and Its Use Against the Dark Arts. Then he
 threw the rest of the newspaper onto the rubbish pile
 and turned to face the room. It was much tidier. The
 only things left out of place were today’s Daily
 Prophet, still lying on the bed, and on top of it, the
 piece of broken mirror.
 Harry moved across the room, slid the mirror
 fragment off today’s Prophet, and unfolded the
 newspaper. He had merely glanced at the headline
 when he had taken the rolled-up paper from the
 delivery owl early that morning and thrown it aside,
 after noting that it said nothing about Voldemort.
 Harry was sure that the Ministry was leaning on the
 Prophet to suppress news about Voldemort. It was
 only now, therefore, that he saw what he had missed.
 Across the bottom half of the front page a smaller
headline was set over a picture of Dumbledore
 striding along looking harried:
 DUMBLEDORE — THE TRUTH AT LAST?
 Coming next week, the shocking story of the flawed
 genius considered by many to be the greatest wizard
 of his generation. Stripping away the popular image of
 serene, silver-bearded wisdom, Rita Skeeter reveals
 the disturbed childhood, the lawless youth, the
 lifelong feuds, and the guilty secrets that Dumbledore
 carried to his grave. WHY was the man tipped to be
 Minister of Magic content to remain a mere
 headmaster? WHAT was the real purpose of the secret
 organization known as the Order of the Phoenix?
 HOW did Dumbledore really meet his end?

Page| 24
 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
 The answers to these and many more questions are explored in the
 explosive new biography, The Life and
 Lies of Albus Dumbledore, by Rita Skeeter, exclusively
 interviewed by Betty Braithwaite, page 13, inside.
 Harry ripped open the paper and found page thirteen.
The article was topped with a picture showing
 another familiar face: a woman wearing jeweled
 glasses with elaborately curled blonde hair, her teeth
 bared in what was clearly supposed to be a winning
 smile, wiggling her fingers up at him. Doing his best
 to ignore this nauseating image, Harry read on.
 In person, Rita Skeeter is much warmer and softer
 than her famously ferocious quill-portraits might
 suggest. Greeting me in the hallway of her cozy home,
 she leads me straight into the kitchen for a cup of tea,
 a slice of pound cake and, it goes without saying, a
 steaming vat of freshest gossip.
 “Well, of course, Dumbledore is a biographer’s dream,”
 says Skeeter. “Such a long, full life. I’m sure my book
 will be the first of very, very many.”
 Skeeter was certainly quick off the mark. Her nine
hundred-page book was completed a mere four weeks
 after Dumbledore’s mysterious death in June. I ask
 her how she managed this superfast feat.
 “Oh, when you’ve been a journalist as long as I have,
working to a deadline is second nature. I knew that
 the Wizarding world was clamoring for the full story
 and I wanted to be the first to meet that need.”
 I mention the recent, widely publicized remarks of
 Elphias Doge, Special Advisor to the Wizengamot and
 longstanding friend of Albus Dumbledore’s, that
 “Skeeter’s book contains less fact than a Chocolate
 Frog card.”

Page| 25
 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
 Skeeter throws back her head and laughs.
 “Darling Dodgy! I remember interviewing him a few
 years back about merpeople rights, bless him.
 Completely gaga, seemed to think we were sitting at
 the bottom of Lake Windermere, kept telling me to
 watch out for trout.”
 And yet Elphias Doge’s accusations of inaccuracy
 have been echoed in many places. Does Skeeter really
 feel that four short weeks have been enough to gain a
 full picture of Dumbledore’s long and extraordinary life?
 “Oh, my dear,” beams Skeeter, rapping me
 affectionately across the knuckles, “you know as well
 as I do how much information can be generated by a
 fat bag of Galleons, a refusal to hear the word ‘no,’
 and a nice sharp Quick-Quotes Quill! People were
 queuing to dish the dirt on Dumbledore anyway. Not
 everyone thought he was so wonderful, you know —
 he trod on an awful lot of important toes. But old
 Dodgy Doge can get off his high hippogriff, because
 I’ve had access to a source most journalists would
 swap their wands for, one who has never spoken in
 public before and who was close to Dumbledore
 during the most turbulent and disturbing phase of
 his youth.”
 The advance publicity for Skeeter’s biography has
 certainly suggested that there will be shocks in store
 for those who believe Dumbledore to have led a
 blameless life. What were the biggest surprises she
 uncovered, I ask? 
“Now, come off it, Betty, I’m not giving away all the
 highlights before anybody’s bought the book!” laughs
 Skeeter. “But I can promise that anybody who still
 thinks Dumbledore was white as his beard is in for a

Page| 26
 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
 rude awakening! Let’s just say that nobody hearing
 him rage against You-Know-Who would have dreamed
 that he dabbled in the Dark Arts himself in his youth!
 And for a wizard who spent his later years pleading
 for tolerance, he wasn’t exactly broad-minded when
 he was younger! Yes, Albus Dumbledore had an
 extremely murky past, not to mention that very fishy
 family, which he worked so hard to keep hushed up.”
 I ask whether Skeeter is referring to Dumbledore’s
 brother, Aberforth, whose conviction by the
 Wizengamot for misuse of magic caused a minor
 scandal fifteen years ago.
 “Oh, Aberforth is just the tip of the dung heap,” laughs
 Skeeter. “No, no, I’m talking about much worse than a
brother with a fondness for fiddling about with goats,
 worse even than the Muggle-maiming father —
 Dumbledore couldn’t keep either of them quiet anyway,
 they were both charged by the Wizengamot. No, it’s the
 mother and the sister that intrigued me, and a little
 digging uncovered a positive nest of nastiness — but,
 as I say, you’ll have to wait for chapters nine to twelve
 for full details. All I can say now is, it’s no wonder
 Dumbledore never talked about how his nose got
 broken.”
 Family skeletons notwithstanding, does Skeeter deny
 the brilliance that led to Dumbledore’s many magical
 discoveries?
 “He had brains,” she concedes, “although many now
 question whether he could really take full credit for all
 of his supposed achievements. As I reveal in chapter
 sixteen, Ivor Dillonsby claims he had already
 discovered eight uses of dragon’s blood when
 Dumbledore ‘borrowed’ his papers.”

Page| 27
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
 But the importance of some of Dumbledore’s
 achievements cannot, I venture, be denied. What of
 his famous defeat of Grindelwald?
 “Oh, now, I’m glad you mentioned Grindelwald,” says
 Skeeter with a tantalizing smile. “I’m afraid those who
 go dewy-eyed over Dumbledore’s spectacular victory
 must brace themselves for a bombshell — or perhaps
 a Dungbomb. Very dirty business indeed. All I’ll say
 is, don’t be so sure that there really was the
 spectacular duel of legend. After they’ve read my
 book, people may be forced to conclude that
 Grindelwald simply conjured a white handkerchief
 from the end of his wand and came quietly!”
 Skeeter refuses to give any more away on this
 intriguing subject, so we turn instead to the
 relationship that will undoubtedly fascinate her
 readers more than any other.
 “Oh yes,” says Skeeter, nodding briskly, “I devote an
 entire chapter to the whole Potter-Dumbledore
relationship. It’s been called unhealthy, even sinister.
 Again, your readers will have to buy my book for the
 whole story, but there is no question that
 Dumbledore took an unnatural interest in Potter from
 the word go. Whether that was really in the boy’s best
 interests — well, we’ll see. It’s certainly an open secret
 that Potter has had a most troubled adolescence.”
 I ask whether Skeeter is still in touch with Harry
 Potter, whom she so famously interviewed last year: a
 breakthrough piece in which Potter spoke exclusively
 of his conviction that You-Know-Who had returned.
 “Oh, yes, we’ve developed a close bond,” says Skeeter.
 “Poor Potter has few real friends, and we met at one of
 the most testing moments of his life — the Triwizard
 Tournament. I am probably one of the only people

Page| 28
 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
 alive who can say that they know the real Harry
 Potter.”
 Which leads us neatly to the many rumors still
circulating about Dumbledore’s final hours. Does
 Skeeter believe that Potter was there when
 Dumbledore died?
 “Well, I don’t want to say too much — it’s all in the
 book — but eyewitnesses inside Hogwarts castle saw
 Potter running away from the scene moments after
 Dumbledore fell, jumped, or was pushed. Potter later
 gave evidence against Severus Snape, a man against
 whom he has a notorious grudge. Is everything as it
 seems? That is for the Wizarding community to decide
 — once they’ve read my book.”
 On that intriguing note, I take my leave. There can be
 no doubt that Skeeter has quilled an instant
 bestseller. Dumbledore’s legions of admirers,
 meanwhile, may well be trembling at what is soon to
 emerge about their hero.
 Harry reached the bottom of the article, but
 continued to stare blankly at the page. Revulsion and
 fury rose in him like vomit; he balled up the
 newspaper and threw it, with all his force, at the wall,
where it joined the rest of the rubbish heaped around
 his overflowing bin.
 He began to stride blindly around the room, opening
 empty drawers and picking up books only to replace
 them on the same piles, barely conscious of what he
 was doing, as random phrases from Rita’s article
 echoed in his head: An entire chapter to the whole
 Potter-Dumbledore relationship … It’s been called
 unhealthy, even sinister. … He dabbled in the Dark
 Arts himself in his youth … I’ve had access to a source
 most journalists would swap their wands for …

Page| 29
 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
 “Lies!” Harry bellowed, and through the window he
 saw the next-door neighbor, who had paused to
 restart his lawn mower, look up nervously.
 Harry sat down hard on the bed. The broken bit of
 mirror danced away from him; he picked it up and
 turned it over in his fingers, thinking, thinking of
 Dumbledore and the lies with which Rita Skeeter was
defaming him. …
 A flash of brightest blue. Harry froze, his cut finger
 slipping on the jagged edge of the mirror again. He
 had imagined it, he must have done. He glanced over
 his shoulder, but the wall was a sickly peach color of
 Aunt Petunia’s choosing: There was nothing blue
 there for the mirror to reflect. He peered into the
 mirror fragment again, and saw nothing but his own
 bright green eye looking back at him.
 He had imagined it, there was no other explanation;
 imagined it, because he had been thinking of his dead
 headmaster. If anything was certain, it was that the
 bright blue eyes of Albus Dumbledore would never
 pierce him again.

Page| 30
 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
THE DURSLEYS DEPARTING
 The sound of the front door slamming echoed up the
 stairs and a voice yelled, “Oi! You!”
 Sixteen years of being addressed thus left Harry in no
 doubt whom his uncle was calling; nevertheless, he
 did not immediately respond. He was still gazing at
 the mirror fragment in which, for a split second, he
 had thought he saw Dumbledore’s eye. It was not
 until his uncle bellowed, “BOY!” that Harry got slowly
 to his feet and headed for the bedroom door, pausing
 to add the piece of broken mirror to the rucksack
 filled with things he would be taking with him.
 “You took your time!” roared Vernon Dursley when
 Harry appeared at the top of the stairs. “Get down
 here, I want a word!”
 Harry strolled downstairs, his hands deep in his jeans
pockets. When he reached the living room he found
 all three Dursleys. They were dressed for traveling:
 Uncle Vernon in a fawn zip-up jacket, Aunt Petunia in

Page| 31
 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
 a neat salmon-colored coat, and Dudley, Harry’s
 large, blond, muscular cousin, in his leather jacket.
 “Yes?” asked Harry.
 “Sit down!” said Uncle Vernon. Harry raised his
 eyebrows. “Please!” added Uncle Vernon, wincing
 slightly as though the word was sharp in his throat.
 Harry sat. He thought he knew what was coming. His
 uncle began to pace up and down, Aunt Petunia and
 Dudley following his movements with anxious
 expressions. Finally, his large purple face crumpled
 with concentration, Uncle Vernon stopped in front of
 Harry and spoke.
 “I’ve changed my mind,” he said.
 “What a surprise,” said Harry.
 “Don’t you take that tone —” began Aunt Petunia in a
shrill voice, but Vernon Dursley waved her down.
 “It’s all a lot of claptrap,” said Uncle Vernon, glaring
 at Harry with piggy little eyes. “I’ve decided I don’t
 believe a word of it. We’re staying put, we’re not going
 anywhere.”
 Harry looked up at his uncle and felt a mixture of
 exasperation and amusement. Vernon Dursley had
 been changing his mind every twenty-four hours for
 the past four weeks, packing and unpacking and
 repacking the car with every change of heart. Harry’s
 favorite moment had been the one when Uncle
 Vernon, unaware that Dudley had added his
 dumbbells to his case since the last time it had been
 unpacked, had attempted to hoist it back into the
 boot and collapsed with roars of pain and much
 swearing.

Page| 32
 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
 “According to you,” Vernon Dursley said now,
 resuming his pacing up and down the living room,
“we — Petunia, Dudley, and I — are in danger. From
 — from —”
 “Some of ‘my lot,’ right,” said Harry.
 “Well, I don’t believe it,” repeated Uncle Vernon,
 coming to a halt in front of Harry again. “I was awake
 half the night thinking it all over, and I believe it’s a
 plot to get the house.”
 “The house?” repeated Harry. “What house?”
 “This house!” shrieked Uncle Vernon, the vein in his
 forehead starting to pulse. “Our house! House prices
 are skyrocketing around here! You want us out of the
 way and then you’re going to do a bit of hocus-pocus
 and before we know it the deeds will be in your name
 and —”
 “Are you out of your mind?” demanded Harry. “A plot
 to get this house? Are you actually as stupid as you
 look?”
“Don’t you dare — !” squealed Aunt Petunia, but
 again, Vernon waved her down: Slights on his
 personal appearance were, it seemed, as nothing to
the danger he had spotted.
 “Just in case you’ve forgotten,” said Harry, “I’ve
 already got a house, my godfather left me one. So why
 would I want this one? All the happy memories?”
 There was silence. Harry thought he had rather
 impressed his uncle with this argument.
 “You claim,” said Uncle Vernon, starting to pace yet
 again, “that this Lord Thing —”

Page | 33
 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
 “— Voldemort,” said Harry impatiently, “and we’ve
 been through this about a hundred times already.
 This isn’t a claim, it’s fact, Dumbledore told you last
 year, and Kingsley and Mr. Weasley —”
 Vernon Dursley hunched his shoulders angrily, and
 Harry guessed that his uncle was attempting to ward
 off recollections of the unannounced visit, a few days
 into Harry’s summer holidays, of two fully grown
 wizards. The arrival on the doorstep of Kingsley
 Shacklebolt and Arthur Weasley had come as a most
unpleasant shock to the Dursleys. Harry had to
 admit, however, that as Mr. Weasley had once
 demolished half of the living room, his reappearance
 could not have been expected to delight Uncle
 Vernon.
 “— Kingsley and Mr. Weasley explained it all as well,”
 Harry pressed on remorselessly. “Once I’m seventeen,
 the protective charm that keeps me safe will break,
 and that exposes you as well as me. The Order is sure
 Voldemort will target you, whether to torture you to
 try and find out where I am, or because he thinks by
 holding you hostage I’d come and try to rescue you.”
 Uncle Vernon’s and Harry’s eyes met. Harry was sure
 that in that instant they were both wondering the
 same thing. Then Uncle Vernon walked on and Harry
 resumed, “You’ve got to go into hiding and the Order
 wants to help. You’re being offered serious protection,
 the best there is.”
 Uncle Vernon said nothing, but continued to pace up
 and down. Outside the sun hung low over the privet
hedges. The next-door neighbor’s lawn mower stalled
 again.
 “I thought there was a Ministry of Magic?” asked
 Vernon Dursley abruptly.
