Page| 103
 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
 “We were just talking about Mad-Eye,” Ron told
 Harry. “I reckon he might have survived.”
 “But Bill saw him hit by the Killing Curse,” said
 Harry.
 “Yeah, but Bill was under attack too,” said Ron. “How
 can he be sure what he saw?”
 “Even if the Killing Curse missed, Mad-Eye still fell
 about a thousand feet,” said Hermione, now weighing
 Quidditch Teams of Britain and Ireland in her hand.
 “He could have used a Shield Charm —”
 “Fleur said his wand was blasted out of his hand,”
 said Harry.
 “Well, all right, if you want him to be dead,” said Ron
 grumpily, punching his pillow into a more
 comfortable shape.
 “Of course we don’t want him to be dead!” said
Hermione, looking shocked. “It’s dreadful that he’s
 dead! But we’re being realistic!”
 For the first time, Harry imagined Mad-Eye’s body,
 broken as Dumbledore’s had been, yet with that one
 eye still whizzing in its socket. He felt a stab of
 revulsion mixed with a bizarre desire to laugh.
 “The Death Eaters probably tidied up after
 themselves, that’s why no one’s found him,” said Ron
 wisely.
 “Yeah,” said Harry. “Like Barty Crouch, turned into a
 bone and buried in Hagrid’s front garden. They
 probably transfigured Moody and stuffed him —”

 Page| 104
 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
 “Don’t!” squealed Hermione. Startled, Harry looked
 over just in time to see her burst into tears over her
 copy of Spellman’s Syllabary.
 “Oh no,” said Harry, struggling to get up from the old
 camp bed. “Hermione, I wasn’t trying to upset —”
 But with a great creaking of rusty bedsprings, Ron
bounded off the bed and got there first. One arm
 around Hermione, he fished in his jeans pocket and
 withdrew a revolting-looking handkerchief that he
 had used to clean out the oven earlier. Hastily pulling
 out his wand, he pointed it at the rag and said,
 “Tergeo. ”
 The wand siphoned off most of the grease. Looking
 rather pleased with himself, Ron handed the slightly
 smoking handkerchief to Hermione.
 “Oh … thanks, Ron. … I’m sorry. …” She blew her
 nose and hiccuped. “It’s just so awf-ful, isn’t it? R
right after Dumbledore … I j-just n-never imagined
 Mad-Eye dying, somehow, he seemed so tough!”
 “Yeah, I know,” said Ron, giving her a squeeze. “But
 you know what he’d say to us if he was here?”
 “ ‘C-constant vigilance,’ ” said Hermione, mopping her
 eyes.
 “That’s right,” said Ron, nodding. “He’d tell us to learn
 from what happened to him. And what I’ve learned is
 not to trust that cowardly little squit, Mundungus.”
Hermione gave a shaky laugh and leaned forward to
 pick up two more books. A second later, Ron had
 snatched his arm back from around her shoulders;
 she had dropped The Monster Book of Monsters on his

 Page| 105
 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
 foot. The book had broken free from its restraining belt and snapped
 viciously at Ron’s ankle.
 “I’m sorry, I’m sorry!” Hermione cried as Harry
 wrenched the book from Ron’s leg and retied it shut.
 “What are you doing with all those books anyway?”
 Ron asked, limping back to his bed.
 “Just trying to decide which ones to take with us,”
 said Hermione. “When we’re looking for the
 Horcruxes.”
 “Oh, of course,” said Ron, clapping a hand to his
 forehead. “I forgot we’ll be hunting down Voldemort in
 a mobile library.”
 “Ha ha,” said Hermione, looking down at Spellman’s
 Syllabary. “I wonder … will we need to translate
 runes? It’s possible. … I think we’d better take it, to
be safe.”
 She dropped the syllabary onto the larger of the two
 piles and picked up Hogwarts, A History.
 “Listen,” said Harry.
 He had sat up straight. Ron and Hermione looked at
 him with similar mixtures of resignation and defiance.
 “I know you said after Dumbledore’s funeral that you
 wanted to come with me,” Harry began.
 “Here he goes,” Ron said to Hermione, rolling his eyes.
 “As we knew he would,” she sighed, turning back to
 the books. “You know, I think I will take Hogwarts, A
 History. Even if we’re not going back there, I don’t
 think I’d feel right if I didn’t have it with —”

 Page| 106
 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
 “Listen!” said Harry again.
 “No, Harry, you listen,” said Hermione. “We’re coming
 with you. That was decided months ago — years,
really.”
 “But —”
 “Shut up,” Ron advised him.
 “— are you sure you’ve thought this through?” Harry
 persisted.
 “Let’s see,” said Hermione, slamming Travels with
 Trolls onto the discarded pile with a rather fierce look.
 “I’ve been packing for days, so we’re ready to leave at
 a moment’s notice, which for your information has
 included doing some pretty difficult magic, not to
 mention smuggling Mad-Eye’s whole stock of
 Polyjuice Potion right under Ron’s mum’s nose.
 “I’ve also modified my parents’ memories so that
 they’re convinced they’re really called Wendell and
 Monica Wilkins, and that their life’s ambition is to
 move to Australia, which they have now done. That’s
 to make it more difficult for Voldemort to track them
 down and interrogate them about me — or you,
 because unfortunately, I’ve told them quite a bit
 about you.
“Assuming I survive our hunt for the Horcruxes, I’ll
 find Mum and Dad and lift the enchantment. If I don’t
 — well, I think I’ve cast a good enough charm to keep
 them safe and happy. Wendell and Monica Wilkins
 don’t know that they’ve got a daughter, you see.”
 Hermione’s eyes were swimming with tears again. Ron
 got back off the bed, put his arm around her once
 more, and frowned at Harry as though reproaching

 Page| 107
 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
 him for lack of tact. Harry could not think of anything to say, not least
 because it was highly unusual for
 Ron to be teaching anyone else tact.
 “I — Hermione, I’m sorry — I didn’t —”
 “Didn’t realize that Ron and I know perfectly well
 what might happen if we come with you? Well, we do.
 Ron, show Harry what you’ve done.”
 “Nah, he’s just eaten,” said Ron.
 “Go on, he needs to know!”
 “Oh, all right. Harry, come here.”
 For the second time Ron withdrew his arm from
around Hermione and stumped over to the door.
 “C’mon.”
 “Why?” Harry asked, following Ron out of the room
 onto the tiny landing.
 “Descendo, ” muttered Ron, pointing his wand at the
 low ceiling. A hatch opened right over their heads and
 a ladder slid down to their feet. A horrible, half
sucking, half-moaning sound came out of the square
 hole, along with an unpleasant smell like open drains.
 “That’s your ghoul, isn’t it?” asked Harry, who had
 never actually met the creature that sometimes
 disrupted the nightly silence.
 “Yeah, it is,” said Ron, climbing the ladder. “Come
 and have a look at him.”
 Harry followed Ron up the few short steps into the
 tiny attic space. His head and shoulders were in the

 Page| 108
 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
 room before he caught sight of the creature curled up a few feet from him,
 fast asleep in the gloom with its
 large mouth wide open.
“But it … it looks … do ghouls normally wear
 pajamas?”
 “No,” said Ron. “Nor have they usually got red hair or
 that number of pustules.”
 Harry contemplated the thing, slightly revolted. It was
 human in shape and size, and was wearing what, now
 that Harry’s eyes became used to the darkness, was
 clearly an old pair of Ron’s pajamas. He was also sure
 that ghouls were generally rather slimy and bald,
 rather than distinctly hairy and covered in angry
 purple blisters.
 “He’s me, see?” said Ron.
 “No,” said Harry. “I don’t.”
 “I’ll explain it back in my room, the smell’s getting to
 me,” said Ron. They climbed back down the ladder,
 which Ron returned to the ceiling, and rejoined
 Hermione, who was still sorting books.
 “Once we’ve left, the ghoul’s going to come and live
 down here in my room,” said Ron. “I think he’s really
 looking forward to it — well, it’s hard to tell, because
all he can do is moan and drool — but he nods a lot
 when you mention it. Anyway, he’s going to be me
 with spattergroit. Good, eh?”
 Harry merely looked his confusion.
 “It is!” said Ron, clearly frustrated that Harry had not
 grasped the brilliance of the plan. “Look, when we
 three don’t turn up at Hogwarts again, everyone’s

 Page| 109
 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
 going to think Hermione and I must be with you,
 right? Which means the Death Eaters will go straight
 for our families to see if they’ve got information on
 where you are.”
 “But hopefully it’ll look like I’ve gone away with Mum
 and Dad; a lot of Muggle-borns are talking about
 going into hiding at the moment,” said Hermione.
 “We can’t hide my whole family, it’ll look too fishy and
 they can’t all leave their jobs,” said Ron. “So we’re
 going to put out the story that I’m seriously ill with
 spattergroit, which is why I can’t go back to school. If
anyone comes calling to investigate, Mum or Dad can
 show them the ghoul in my bed, covered in pustules.
 Spattergroit’s really contagious, so they’re not going
 to want to go near him. It won’t matter that he can’t
 say anything, either, because apparently you can’t
 once the fungus has spread to your uvula.”
 “And your mum and dad are in on this plan?” asked
 Harry.
 “Dad is. He helped Fred and George transform the
 ghoul. Mum … well, you’ve seen what she’s like. She
 won’t accept we’re going till we’ve gone.”
 There was silence in the room, broken only by gentle
 thuds as Hermione continued to throw books onto
 one pile or the other. Ron sat watching her, and Harry
 looked from one to the other, unable to say anything.
 The measures they had taken to protect their families
 made him realize, more than anything else could have
 done, that they really were going to come with him
 and that they knew exactly how dangerous that would
 be. He wanted to tell them what that meant to him,
but he simply could not find words important enough.

 Page| 110
 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
 Through the silence came the muffled sounds of Mrs.
 Weasley shouting from four floors below.
 “Ginny’s probably left a speck of dust on a poxy
 napkin ring,” said Ron. “I dunno why the Delacours
 have got to come two days before the wedding.”
 “Fleur’s sister’s a bridesmaid, she needs to be here for
 the rehearsal, and she’s too young to come on her
 own,” said Hermione, as she pored indecisively over
 Break with a Banshee.
 “Well, guests aren’t going to help Mum’s stress levels,”
 said Ron.
 “What we really need to decide,” said Hermione,
 tossing Defensive Magical Theory into the bin without
 a second glance and picking up An Appraisal of
 Magical Education in Europe, “is where we’re going
 after we leave here. I know you said you wanted to go
 to Godric’s Hollow first, Harry, and I understand why,
but … well … shouldn’t we make the Horcruxes our
 priority?”
 “If we knew where any of the Horcruxes were, I’d
 agree with you,” said Harry, who did not believe that
 Hermione really understood his desire to return to
 Godric’s Hollow. His parents’ graves were only part of
 the attraction: He had a strong, though inexplicable,
 feeling that the place held answers for him. Perhaps it
 was simply because it was there that he had survived
 Voldemort’s Killing Curse; now that he was facing the
 challenge of repeating the feat, Harry was drawn to
 the place where it had happened, wanting to
 understand.
 “Don’t you think there’s a possibility that Voldemort’s
 keeping a watch on Godric’s Hollow?” Hermione
 asked. “He might expect you to go back and visit your

 Page| 111
 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
 parents’ graves once you’re free to go wherever you like?”
 This had not occurred to Harry. While he struggled to
find a counterargument, Ron spoke up, evidently
 following his own train of thought.
 “This R.A.B. person,” he said. “You know, the one who
 stole the real locket?”
 Hermione nodded.
 “He said in his note he was going to destroy it, didn’t
 he?”
 Harry dragged his rucksack toward him and pulled
 out the fake Horcrux in which R.A.B.’s note was still
 folded.
 “ ‘ I have stolen the real Horcrux and intend to destroy
 it as soon as I can, ’ ” Harry read out.
 “Well, what if he did finish it off?” said Ron.
 “Or she,” interposed Hermione.
 “Whichever,” said Ron, “it’d be one less for us to do!”
 “Yes, but we’re still going to have to try and trace the
 real locket, aren’t we?” said Hermione, “to find out
 whether or not it’s destroyed.”
 “And once we get hold of it, how do you destroy a
 Horcrux?” asked Ron.
“Well,” said Hermione, “I’ve been researching that.”
 “How?” asked Harry. “I didn’t think there were any
 books on Horcruxes in the library?”

 Page| 112
 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
 “There weren’t,” said Hermione, who had turned pink.
 “Dumbledore removed them all, but he — he didn’t
 destroy them.”
 Ron sat up straight, wide-eyed.
 “How in the name of Merlin’s pants have you
 managed to get your hands on those Horcrux books?”
 “It — it wasn’t stealing!” said Hermione, looking from
 Harry to Ron with a kind of desperation. “They were
 still library books, even if Dumbledore had taken
 them off the shelves. Anyway, if he really didn’t want
 anyone to get at them, I’m sure he would have made
 it much harder to —”
 “Get to the point!” said Ron.
 “Well … it was easy,” said Hermione in a small voice.
 “I just did a Summoning Charm. You know — Accio.
And — they zoomed out of Dumbledore’s study
 window right into the girls’ dormitory.”
 “But when did you do this?” Harry asked, regarding
 Hermione with a mixture of admiration and
 incredulity.
 “Just after his — Dumbledore’s — funeral,” said
 Hermione in an even smaller voice. “Right after we
 agreed we’d leave school and go and look for the
 Horcruxes. When I went back upstairs to get my
 things it — it just occurred to me that the more we
 knew about them, the better it would be … and I was
 alone in there … so I tried … and it worked. They flew
 straight in through the open window and I — I packed
 them.”
 She swallowed and then said imploringly, “I can’t
 believe Dumbledore would have been angry, it’s not
